Project goals November update (#1440)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2025-12-02-project-goals-nov-update.md

    <div style="flex: initial;"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Will%20not%20complete%20%3A%28-yellow" alt="Will not complete"></img>
</div>
</div>

* We decided to close this goal as we have not been making steady progress. We are evaluating what to propose the 2025h1 round of goals.

## Goals without updates

The following goals have not received updates in the last month:

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/103'><strong>Associated type position impl trait</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Will%20not%20complete%20%3A%28-yellow" alt="Will not complete"></img>
</div>
</div><div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/111'><strong>Implement &quot;merged doctests&quot; to save doctest time</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Completed%20%3D%29-green" alt="Completed"></img>

> </div>

Reviewer: Some of the goals listed as "goals which have not received updates" are not going to receive any 😅:
- this rustdoc goal has already been completed in August
- the "Associated type position impl trait" just above was also closed in October

Author: Yeah, I figured that was ok.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/102'><strong>Assemble project goal slate</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="6" max="8"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Posted the October update.
* Created more automated infrastructure to prepare the October update, making use of an LLM to summarize updates into one or two sentences for a concise table.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/104'><strong>Begin resolving &#x60;cargo-semver-checks&#x60; blockers for merging into cargo</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="0" max="4"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Support for cargo manifest linting is [now merged](https://github.com/obi1kenobi/cargo-semver-checks/pull/1007), making it possible to catch breakage caused by _manifest_ (`Cargo.toml`) changes, not just source code changes. An example of such breakage is the removal of a package feature: any crates that enabled the removed feature will no longer build.

> * Partial schema design and implementation of type information in lints, enabling the creation of breaking-change lints and improving diagnostic quality for type-related breaking changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Partial schema design and implementation of type information in lints, enabling the creation of breaking-change lints and improving diagnostic quality for a subset of type-related breaking changes.
```
Just to avoid the possibility of misconceptions. The full suite of type-related breakage lints is not yet possible, and work on that is ongoing.

</div>
</div>

* The way const traits are desugared was completely restructured, making the design easier to understand and more robust against current unit tests.
* Significant development and cleanup for the feature has been done, with several pull requests merged and two still open, bringing the feature closer to being able to dogfood on the standard library and closer to stabilization.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/107'><strong>Ergonomic ref-counting</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="1" max="6"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* @joshtriplett opened https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3680. The @rust-lang/lang team has not yet truly discussed or reached a decision on that RFC.
* @spastorino began implementation work on a prototype.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/108'><strong>Explore sandboxed build scripts</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="4" max="10"></progress>
</div>
</div>

> * No significant progress has been made on the sandboxed build scripts project.
> * Feedback on the previous experiment was received, with Alex expressing interest in adding POSIX process support to WASI, though this is unlikely in the near future.

Author: ```suggestion
* The sandboxed build scripts exploration is complete. We are unlikely to continue this work in next year but the research may be useful in other areas, such as the possible addition of POSIX process support to WASI.
```

Maybe this, @weihanglo ?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The sandboxed build scripts exploration is complete. We are unlikely to continue this work in next year but the research may be useful in other areas, such as the possible addition of POSIX process support to WASI or a declarative system dependency configuration in Cargo.
```

* This is one of many steps required to publish a new `0.3.0` version of the PubGrub crate.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/112'><strong>Make Rustdoc Search easier to learn</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="2" max="9"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* Rustdoc will now show type signatures in the search results page, and the boxing transform behaves more like Hoogle's does.
* Improvements to matching behavior have been made to fit user expectations.

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/113'><strong>Next-generation trait solver</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="10" max="13"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* The `-Znext-solver=coherence` flag has been stabilized again in PR #130654, indicating potential final stabilization.

> * Refactoring of the current "typing mode" tracking is underway, linked to issue #128, to address issue #106, with an FCP initiated for merging candidates in trait goals, expected to resolve related issues in the new solver.

Reviewer 4: these issue numbers are quite misleading :thinking:

The first issue is a types team MCP: https://github.com/rust-lang/types-team/issues/128
The second one is https://github.com/rust-lang/trait-system-refactor-initiative/issues/106

<div style="display: flex;" class="mt2 mb3">
    <div style="flex: auto;"><a href='https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/114'><strong>Optimizing Clippy &amp; linting</strong></a></div>
    <div style="flex: initial;"><progress value="1" max="2"></progress>
</div>
</div>

* rust-lang/rust#125116 has been merged, marking half of the goal as formally completed.
* Discussions on [using `cargo cache` on CI](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/issues/13033#issuecomment-2501279515) are beginning to take form.

> 

Reviewer 5: I would add the other two points of the [last comment](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-project-goals/issues/114#issuecomment-2502199992), or at least the one about experimenting with linking options.

>  We've been experimenting with Clippy using `rustc_driver` as a static library [...]
